Research Proposal:

Abstract—The aim of this research project and subsequent
master’s thesis is to develop a system that helps recycle plastics
for different applications such as 3D-printing. To achieve this
goal a visual style of discrimination is used to sort different
types of synthetic material or to detect unusable combinations
of plastics and other plastics or plastics and other materials.
Machine learning models will be implemented to automate this
task.
Keywords—plastic recycling, Machine Learning, visual discrimination
Processes in manufacturing like 3D printing rely on a certain
level of purity in the consumed material. To achieve such
purity the most common solution for acquiring these materials
is to buy them wholesale from an industrial supplier. In today’s
age with environmental consciousness on the rise the desire
to obtain the needed materials from recycled sources has
increased drastically. To solve both problems, the demanded
purity of materials and the recycled source this project aims
to develop a system that ensures a user-friendly device which
allows the discrimination of different kinds of plastic.
I. CONTRIBUTION
This Project aims to develop a system that discriminates
different kinds of plastics, a "smart waste bin". The design
should feature one designated area to place plastic waste and
an easy-to-understand interface that tells the user different stats
about the levels of the different compartments of plastic and
the type of plastic that just got placed into the system. For this
system to work the following features need to be developed:
• visual detection
• visual processing
• easy-to-use interface
• automated functionality via Machine Learning
• network capability to check status remotely
• messaging capability in case of error or other maintenance needs
The main goal, however, is implementing the visual discrimination system. Different approaches have been successful in
distinguishing between different kinds of synthetic material
using cameras and certain filters and visual processing, even
implementing Machine Learning automation. [1]
II. RELEVANCE
The relevance of this project is reflected in the global effort
to strive for new ways to reduce the negative impact on
the Environment of industrial processes. Techniques like 3DPrinting have made a huge impact on a lot of different fields
of engineering. It also provided the ability to produce needed
spare parts in secluded regions of the world. The ability to use
this technology in combination with the reduction of plastic
waste would mean a big step toward a more sustainable future.
This project aims to provide a small-scale solution to reduce
plastic waste in a single building. Any kind of plastic waste
can be thrown into the bin. It will be analyzed and then decided
if it can be used in any process or if it will be discarded into
regular plastic waste.
III. ORIGINALITY & RELATED WORK
The work that defines this field consists of two branches.
Either the development of "smart waste bins" [2] or the proof
of concept of plastic discrimination[1].
A. Smart Waste Collecting
The "smart waste bin" uses sensors in the trash bin to measure the amount of waste that has been collected. Furthermore,
it features a web server that can be used to check on the system
remotely. it can also predict the next time that a specific bin
needs to be emptied based on past fill states using Machine
Learning. The system is also able to send SMS-Messages and
even add alerts to Google calendars [2].
B. Visual Plastic Discrimination
Using a setup to discriminate between different kinds of
plastics using cameras has been proven to work reliably. The
most challenging part of this technique is to ensure the correct
environment for exact measurements. By using different kinds
of monochromatic light and filters different images can be
analyzed to deduct the material that has been scanned. By
providing samples of different plastics the system should
recognize the process can also be automated via Machine
Learning as shown by[1].C. Originality
The goal of this Project is to combine different aspects of
these concepts to provide a completely autonomous system
that detects and discriminates plastics based on desired types
of plastics, sends out alerts to certain other systems to indicate
a problem or request to be emptied and, a way to check on
the systems current state remotely. The main objective of the
project will concern the visual system to determine the types
of plastics. The main problem with this method will be the
condition of the plastic. To provide the best measurements the
materials should be all the same size, smoothness and level of
cleanness. But this can only be the goal for the first iteration
since the user will not be required to wash the waste that is
thrown into the bin.
IV. METHODOLOGY & EVALUATION
A. Visual Analysis
The first step of this project will be to develop the visual
analysis system for the specific needs and plastics that will be
used. A list of potential plastics that are desirable to recycle
and reuse will be established. This list can change based
on the kind of processing that the plastics will be used for.
Based on that list the requirements for the cameras, filters and
monochrome light sources will be selected. To ensure a certain
level of robustness the systems will aim to be able to detect
items that are not fully cleaned or in any uniform shape as
the users should not be required to apply any pre-processing
before dropping their waste into the bin. To ensure a correct
measurement a sealed comparison needs to be constructed to
ensure the complete isolation from stray environmental light.
B. Remote Access & Messaging
To remotely check on the system different concepts need
to be explored to find the optimal solution. If there is only a
singular system in use it makes sense to host a web server
on the device directly to allow access to the system and
check its state. If there is a multitude of systems in a certain
area like a building it would be unfeasible to check every
system’s web server separately. In this scenario, it would make
more sense to connect these individual systems via a network
and host a web server that provides access to all of these
nodes inside the network. Another solution would be a master
system that collects the data from other nodes regularly and
then collectively provides the information to the web server.
Errors messages or maintenance requests like the request to be
emptied should accouter on one or more additional channels.
The exact parameters need to be considered but the most
accessible messaging channels would be E-Mail and/or SMS.
These methods need to be further evaluated for the specific
use case.
C. Evaluation
The system will be evaluated by the ability to sort unknown
types of plastic into the correct containers. The first requirement is for the systems to do so reliably. Following this first
requirement are certain performance-based metrics like:
• speed of single operation (time needed to process single
material input)
• speed of continuous operation (time needed to process
multiple consecutive inputs)
• throughput of material (how much material can be processed per minute)
• accuracy concerning certain types of surface conditions
and/or cleanliness
• accuracy of the remote interface regarding fullness (to
ensure efficiency)
• accuracy of sending messages regarding errors or required
maintenance
• general error handling
REFERENCES
[1] M. L. Henriksen, C. B. Karlsen, P. Klarskov, and
M. Hinge, “Plastic classification via in-line hyperspectral
camera analysis and unsupervised machine learning,” Vibrational Spectroscopy, vol. 118, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924203121001247
[2] C. J. Baby, H. Singh, A. Srivastava, R. Dhawan, and P. Mahalakshmi,
“Smart bin: An intelligent waste alert and prediction system using machine learning approach,” in 2017 International Conference on Wireless
Communications, Signal Processing and Networking (WiSPNET), 2017.